Mirror-3DGS: Incorporating Mirror Reflections
into 3D Gaussian Splatting
Jiarui Meng1⋆, Haijie Li1⋆, Yanmin Wu1, Qiankun Gao1, Shuzhou Yang1, Jian Zhang1†, Siwei Ma2†
1 School of Electronic and Computer Engineering, Peking University, China
2 School of Computer Science, Peking University, China
{mengjiarui, 2301212733, wuyanmin, gqk, szyang}@stu.pku.edu.cn, {zhangjian.sz, swma}@pku.edu.cn
Abstract—3D Gaussian Splatting (3DGS) has significantly
advanced 3D scene reconstruction and novel view synthesis.
However, like Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF), 3DGS struggles
with accurately modeling physical reflections, particularly in
mirrors, leading to incorrect reconstructions and inconsistent
reflective properties. To address this challenge, we introduce
Mirror-3DGS, a novel framework designed to accurately handle
mirror geometries and reflections, thereby generating realistic
mirror reflections. By incorporating mirror attributes into 3DGS
and leveraging plane mirror imaging principles, Mirror-3DGS
simulates a mirrored viewpoint from behind the mirror, enhanc-
ing the realism of scene renderings. Extensive evaluations on both
synthetic and real-world scenes demonstrate that our method can
render novel views with improved fidelity in real-time, surpassing
the state-of-the-art Mirror-NeRF, especially in mirror regions.
Index Terms—Gaussian Splatting, Mirror Scene.
I. INTRODUCTION
The 3D reconstruction and novel view synthesis are cru-
cial in numerous applications, including the movie industry,
computer gaming, virtual reality, and autonomous navigation.
However, accurately capturing and rendering reflections from
mirrors, which are prevalent in real-world scenes and signif-
icantly increase the visual complexity, remains a significant
challenge for these technologies.
Traditional methods [1]–[5] simulate surface reflections by
decomposing material properties and lighting conditions to
handle scenes with mirrors. However, they often struggle to
accurately infer surfaces and mirror components, especially
in managing pure mirror reflections. With advancements in
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF), new methods [2], [6], [7] have
emerged. NeRFReN [6] enhances rendering quality by using
independent radiance fields for reflective and transmissive
parts. Mirror-NeRF [7] employs Whitted Ray Tracing [8] for
physically accurate mirror reflections, achieving high realism
in novel view synthesis. Despite these improvements, NeRF-
based methods face challenges such as long training times and
slow rendering speeds, limiting their real-time application.
Recently, 3D Gaussian Splatting (3DGS) [9] has emerged
as a promising approach for real-time, high-fidelity 3D scene
rendering. Instead of the slow volumetric rendering of NeRF,
⋆ means equal contribution and † means corresponding authors. This work
was supported in part by the National Natural Science Foundation of China
no. 61931014, U21B2012, in part by the Beijing Natural Science Foundation
no. L242014, and in part by the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central
Universities.
3DGS	Mirror-3DGS (Ours)	GT
Fig. 1. The synthesized novel views and depth maps. 3DGS confuses
mirror reflection, resulting in erroneous mirror depth. Ours properly handles
content in the mirror with depth map almost identical to GT.
3DGS explicitly represents scenes using 3D Gaussians and
rasterizes 3D Gaussians onto the image plane using splatting
techniques, achieving significant improvements in training and
rendering speeds [10]. However, 3DGS tends to treat mirror
reflections as separate scenes, constructing Gaussian points for
them as if they physically exist, leading to inaccurate capture
of these virtual images within mirrors during reconstruction
and rendering, affecting the realism and visual coherence of
the scene, as shown in Fig. 1.
To address these challenges, we propose Mirror-3DGS, a
novel rendering framework based on 3DGS, aimed at pro-
ducing high-fidelity novel views in mirror-containing scenes.
Our Mirror-3DGS is centered on the principle that the virtual
image presented on the mirror is equivalent to observing
the real world from behind the mirror. In general, We first
identify 3D Gaussians representing the mirror, then observe
from both the current and mirrored viewpoints, integrating
these perspectives to render the final image. We introduce an
attribute to signify mirror-like properties to 3D Gaussians and
estimate the mirror plane equation, allowing us to derive the
mirror transformation matrix and mirrored camera parameters.
Our method involves a two-stage training process: 1) During
the first stage, We learn a rough 3D Gaussian representation of
the scene without mirror content and estimate the mirror plane
equation. The mirror content is replaced with a fixed color
based on the ground truth mirror mask to better learn mirror
attributes and avoid interference from virtual images. 2) In the
second stage, We filter Gaussians with high mirror properties
arXiv:2404.01168v2 [cs.CV] 11 Dec 2024

-- 1 of 5 --

for precise estimation of the mirror equation. By integrating
views from both the current and mirrored viewpoints, we
optimize the rendering quality of the entire scene.To ensure
stability and improve the accuracy of plane estimation, we
introduce planar consistency and depth constraints throughout
the training process. These constraints help achieve more
realistic and refined rendering results. Experiments on three
synthetic and three real-world scenes demonstrate that Mirror-
3DGS delivers rendering quality comparable to the state-of-
the-art Mirror-NeRF, while significantly reducing training time
and enabling real-time rendering. Our contributions can be
summarized as follows:
• Innovative Rendering Framework for Mirror Scenes.
We present Mirror-3DGS, a novel rendering framework
that addresses the limitations of 3DGS in handling mirror
scenes, enabling realistic synthesis of novel views.
• Precise Physical Modeling of Mirror Reflection. We
leverage the principle of plane mirror imaging to enhance
3DGS, enabling accurate modeling of physical space and
producing high-fidelity rendering results.
• Extensive Experiments. We conduct comprehensive ex-
periments across synthetic and real scenes to validate our
proposed method. The results demonstrate our superiority
in real-time rendering of high-quality novel views, par-
ticularly surpassing the state-of-the-art in mirror regions.
II. METHODOLOGY
A. Preliminaries
3D Gaussian Splatting (3DGS) is a state-of-the-art approach
in novel view synthesis, utilizing the splatting technique [11]
for efficient real-time rendering. In 3DGS, the scene is rep-
resented using anisotropic Gaussians characterized by center
positions μ ∈ R3, covariances Σ ∈ R3×3, color defined by
spherical harmonic (SH) coefficients c ∈ R3×(k+1)2
(with k
denoting the SH order), and opacity α ∈ R1. The 3D Gaussian
can be queried as follows:
G(x) = e− 1
2 (x−μ)⊤Σ−1(x−μ), (1)
where x represents the position of the query point. Subse-
quently, an efficient 3D to 2D Gaussian mapping [12] is
employed to project the Gaussian onto the image plane:
μ′ = PWμ, Σ′ = JWΣW⊤J⊤, (2)
where μ′ and Σ′ separately represent the 2D mean position
and covariance of the projected 3D Gaussian. P, W and J
denote the projective transformation, viewing transformation,
and Jacobian of the affine approximation of P, respectively.
The color of the pixel on the image plane, denoted by p, uses
a typical neural point-based rendering [13], [14]. Let C ∈
RH×W ×3 represent the color of rendered image where H and
W represents the height and width of images, the rendering
process outlined as follows:
σi = αie− 1
2 (p−μ′)⊤Σ′−1(p−μ′).
C(p) =
N	X
i=1
ciσi
i−1	Y
j=1
(1 − σj ), (3)
(a) Mirror-NeRF 	(b) 3DGS 	(c) Mirror-3DGS
Fig. 2. The underlying principles in handling mirrored contents. a)
Mirror-NeRF employs a technique involving ray tracing and sampling to
achieve mirror reflection. b) 3DGS mistakenly considers objects reflected by
the mirror to be placed behind it, resulting the floaters behind the mirror. c)
Our proposed Mirror-3DGS, captures the reflected objects by simulating a
novel viewpoint situated behind the mirror.
where N represents the number of sample Gaussians that
overlap the pixel p, ci and αi denote the color and opacity of
the i-th Gaussian, respectively.
B. Mirror-aware 3D Gaussian Representation
In the real world, a point’s color varies with different
viewpoints due to its material and environmental lighting.
While NeRF and 3DGS use view-dependent MLPs and spher-
ical harmonics to simulate this, mirrors’ extreme specularity
amplifies view-dependent inconsistencies. We review existing
solutions and introduce our reflection-agnostic Mirror-3DGS.
• Mirror-NeRF: Mirror-NeRF achieves mirror modeling by
learning a unified probabilistic reflectance field and simulates
mirror reflection through physics-based ray tracing, enabling
accurate mirror rendering, as illustrated in Fig. 2(a). However,
its limitations lie in the intensive computational cost of ray
tracing and the prolonged NeRF training time.
• 3DGS: 3DGS is based on explicit gaussian spheres
representation and alpha-blending along ray directions, tending
to generate points behind mirrors as shown in Fig. 2(b). This
violates physical laws and undermines the rendering quality
of mirror back-side scenes.
• Mirror-3DGS (Ours): We innovatively introduce a mirror
imaging method – “moving behind the mirror for a view of
the world”, where the virtual image presented on the mirror
is equivalent to observing the real world from behind the
mirror, as illustrated in Fig. 2(c). Therefore, we avoid the time-
consuming ray tracing required by Mirror-NeRF.
More specifically, 1) we render an image from the original
viewpoint, i.e. observing from in front of the mirror, and
retain the parts outside the mirror; 2) we mirror the original
viewpoint to behind the mirror, rendering an image from the
virtual viewpoint, and only keep the parts of the mirror (see
Sec. II-C); 3) finally, we merge these two images to form the
final result (see Sec. II-C).
To realize the first step above, we need to enable mirror
detection. We add a learnable mirror attribute m ∈ [0, 1]
for each Gaussian in the original 3DGS, representing the
probability of it being a mirror. The rendering process is
similar to color rendering:
M(p) =
N	X
i=0
miσi
i−1	Y
j=1
(1 − σj ) , (4)
where M ∈ RH×W ×1 represents the rendered mirror mask,
and the rest of the symbols are defined as in Eq. (3). We utilize

-- 2 of 5 --

the GT mirror mask Mgt provided by the dataset to supervise
the learning of the mirror attribute:
Lmask = L1(M, Mgt). (5)
C. Virtual Mirrored Viewpoint Construction and Image Fusion
Mirror Parameterization. In the previous section, we
acquire the mirror attribute for each Gaussian. Using this
attribute and opacity, we filter out Gaussians belonging to
the mirror to construct a plane in 3D space. We adopt the
parameterization of an infinite plane [15]: π = (n⊤
π , d) , where
nπ = (a, b, c)⊤ represents the normal of the plane, and d
∥nπ ∥
represents the distance from the origin of the plane to the
world coordinate origin. Thereby, any point p = (x, y, z)⊤ on
the plane satisfies:
n⊤
π p + d = 0. (6)
The optimization of the plane π is presented in Sec. II-D.
Virtual Mirrored Viewpoint Construction. Based on the
above plane equation, given an original observation viewpoint
Po ∈ R4×4, our goal is to obtain the mirrored viewpoint
Pm ∈ R4×4 of this viewpoint relative to the plane. This
transformation can be formulated as:
Pm = TmPo, (7)
where we define Tm as the mirror transformation matrix,
represented as:
Tm =




1 − 2a2 −2ab −2ac −2ad
−2ab 1 − 2b2 −2bc −2bd
−2ac −2bc 1 − 2c2 −2cd
0 0 0 1



 . (8)
Image Fusion. The image from the mirror viewpoint is
obtained using the same rendering equation. We acquire the
rendered image CPo ∈ RH×W ×3 from the original viewpoint,
the rendered image CPm ∈ RH×W ×3 from the mirror view-
point, and the mirror mask M. The final composite image is
fused as follows:
Cf use = CPo ⊙ (1 − M) + CPm ⊙ M, (9)
where ⊙ means element-wise multiplication.
D. Two-Stage Training Strategy
We use a two-stage training strategy, as illustrated in Fig. 3.
Stage 1: The training objective of the first stage is to obtain
a rough Gaussian representation without mirror content and to
optimize the mirror equation. We use the GT mirror mask
provided by the dataset to erase the mirror content in the
GT image Cgt and fill it with red, denoted as Cm
wo. This
is done to optimize the mirror attribute of Gaussians and to
avoid generating false-Gaussians inside the mirror. The loss
for rendering RGB images is consistent with 3DGS [9], i.e.,
L1 loss and D-SSIM term:
L1
rgb = (1−γ)L1(CPo , Cm
wo)+γLD−SSIM (CPo , Cm
wo) (10)
where γ is the weight, and CPo is the rendered image from
the original viewpoint, as defined in Sec. II-C.
Stage 1
3D Gaussians
Differentiable	
Tile Rasterizer
Mirror Mask	
GT
Image with Mask	
GT
Mirror Mask	
Rendered
Image with Mask	
Rendered	Projection
Adaptive	
Density Control
Mirror 	Gaussians
Mirrored	
Viewpoint
Original	
Viewpoint
Render Module
Stage 2
Render	
Module
Fused 	Image	
Rendered
Toal Image	
GT
Estimate Plane
Original	
Viewpoint
Operation Flow 	Gradient Flow
Fig. 3. The illustration of our two-stage training pipeline. In the Stage
1, we use the mirror mask and view image with mirror content replaced by
red to learn the mirror plane and a coarse 3D Gaussian representation of the
scene. In the Stage 2,based on the estimated mirror plane, we fuse views
from the original and mirrored viewpoints to form the final rendered result,
further optimizing the 3D Gaussians.
Additionally, to improve the quality of rendering and geo-
metric structure, we add depth supervision. First, a pretrained
depth estimation model [16] customized for mirror scenes
is utilized to extract the depth map Dgt from image Cm
wo.
Then a modified rasterization library [17] is used to render the
predicted depth map Dpred, supervised with a similar loss:
Ldepth = L1(Dpred, Dgt). (11)
The first stage focuses on optimizing the mirror equation
π = (n⊤
π , d) to accurately generate virtual mirrored view-
points. We filter the Gaussians with high mirror probability
and use an improved RANSAC algorithm [18] to remove noise
Gaussians. Then we supervise that the remaining Gaussians
fall on the mirror plane:
Lplane = 1
Nf
Nf	
X
i=1
n⊤
π pi + d , (12)
where pi is the coordinate of the Gaussian to be optimized,
Nf is the number of filtered mirror Gaussians. The overall
loss for the first stage is:
L1
stage = λmaskLmask + L1
rgb + λdepthLdepth + Lplane, (13)
where λmask, λdepth are the weight of mask loss and depth
loss, respectively.
Stage 2: The objective of the second stage is to refine the
rendering quality of the fused images, during which the mirror
equation is fixed. As described in Sec. II-C, we fuse images
from the current viewpoint and the virtual mirrored viewpoint,
supervising with the complete, unmasked GT image Cgt:
L2
rgb = (1−γ)L1(Cf use, Cgt) + γLD−SSIM (Cf use, Cgt)
(14)
where Cf use is the fused rendered image (see Eq. (9)). The
overall loss of the second stage is expressed as:
L2
stage = λmaskLmask + L2
rgb. (15)

-- 3 of 5 --

GT 	3DGS 	Mirror-3DGS	Mirror-NeRF	DVGO	ROI / PSNR
Mirror Mask
ROI / PSNR 	ROI / PSNR 	ROI / PSNR
Mirror Mask
ROI / PSNR
Mirror Mask
27.52 dB 	25.73 dB 	27.98 dB 	32.71 dB
21.54 dB 	18.93 dB 	20.98 dB 	23.99 dB
Fig. 4. Qualitative comparison of novel view synthesis. Two raws display washroom and discussion room scenes. The top-right shows magnified mirror
regions, and the bottom-right shows predicted mirror masks. PSNR is calculated only for the mirror regions. Both Mirror-NeRF and Mirror-3DGS accurately
predict mirror masks, with Mirror-3DGS achieving the best performance.
TABLE I
QUANTITATIVE COMPARISON ON THE MIRROR-NERF DATASET. BEST
RESULTS ARE BOLDED AND SECOND BEST ARE UNDERLINED. METHODS
MARKED WITH ‘*’ ARE EVALUATED ONLY ON MIRROR REGIONS.
Method Synthetic Real
PSNR↑SSIM↑LPIPS↓ FPS↑ PSNR↑SSIM↑LPIPS↓ FPS↑
InstantNGP [19] 23.54 0.71 0.42 34.89 10.51 0.20 0.71 34.36
DVGO [20] 28.05 0.82 0.29 4.35 22.18 0.67 0.33 4.46
Mirror-NeRF [7] 38.07 0.99 0.01 0.75 25.04 0.86 0.06 0.07
3DGS [9] 37.00 0.97 0.04 341.13 22.55 0.73 0.24 209.62
Mirror-3DGS (Ours) 37.89 0.97 0.01 171.98 25.93 0.81 0.06 95.97
3DGS* [9] 28.35 - - - 21.99 - - -
Mirror-NeRF* [7] 29.47 - - - 22.39 - - -
Mirror-3DGS* (Ours) 32.40 - - - 24.53 - - -
III. EXPERIMENTS
A. Experimental Setup
Dataset. We utilize the publicly released dataset by Mirror-
NeRF [7], which includes common scenarios with prevalent
mirrors. The dataset comprises three synthetic scenes (living
room, office, and washroom) and three real-world scenes
(discussion room, lounge, and market). Each scene has 200
to 300 training views with accompanying mirror masks.
Implementation. Training and testing are done at 480 × 360
resolution for real scenes and 400 × 400 for synthetic scenes.
The training process is divided into two stages: we train 5000
steps in stage 1, followed by 65000 steps in stage 2. The loss
weights λmask and λdepth are set to 1 and 0.1, respectively.
Evaluation. The rendering quality of all methods is evaluated
and compared using the widely recognized PSNR, SSIM [21],
and LPIPS [22] metrics. Additionally, we compare the render-
ing speed using FPS (Frames Per Second). All experiments are
conducted on a single RTX 3090 GPU for fair comparison.
B. Experimental Results
Quantitative Comparisons. We conduct quantitative compar-
isons between our method and several competitive counter-
parts, and the comparison results are detailed in Tab. I.
Among these competitors, Mirror-NeRF achieves high
PSNR, SSIM, and LPIPS scores in synthetic and real scenes.
However, its rendering speed is significantly lower due to
NeRF’s volumetric rendering inefficiencies. Even the fastest
NeRF-based method, InstantNGP, is much slower than 3DGS
and our approach in real scenes. Therefore, NeRF-based
methods are challenging for real-time rendering scenarios.
Our method yields performance better than vanilla 3DGS.
Specifically, our Mirror-3DGS demonstrates an average PSNR
improvement of 0.89 and 3.38 dB over vanilla 3DGS on
the synthetic and real scenes, respectively. Additionally, our
SSIM and LPIPS metrics far exceed those of vanilla 3DGS,
indicating that our synthesized views are significantly more
realistic. These improvements are mainly attributed to our
method’s specialized handling of mirrors and their reflections
in the scene, which inevitably introduces some additional
computation overhead. Therefore, while our rendering speed
is slightly lower than that of vanilla 3DGS, it is significantly
faster than NeRF-based methods, making it suitable for real-
time rendering applications.
It is important to highlight that our Mirror-3DGS outper-
forms both Mirror-NeRF and vanilla 3DGS in terms of the
PSNR metric when focusing solely on the mirror regions, as
shown in the last three rows of Tab. I, demonstrating our
method’s enhanced capability in handling mirror reflections.
Qualitative Comparisons. The qualitative analysis presented
in Fig. 4, focusing on the detailed rendering of mirrors.
Our Mirror-3DGS, by incorporating the principles of plane
mirror imaging and accurately modeling spatial geometric re-
lationships, enables high-fidelity rendering of mirror contents.
Across all six scenes, our Mirror-3DGS achieves rendering
quality comparable to Mirror-NeRF, demonstrating its effec-
tiveness in handling complex mirror reflection.
IV. CONCLUSION
In this paper, we introduce Mirror-3DGS, a novel rendering
framework that addresses the challenge of accurately capturing
and rendering physical reflections in mirror-containing scenes.
Our Mirror-3DGS employs a two-stage training process that
first filters mirror Gaussians and then uses this information
to accurately estimate the mirror plane and derive mirrored
camera parameters. The effectiveness of Mirror-3DGS in
delivering high-quality renderings of scenes with mirrors is
demonstrated by experiments on synthetic and real scenes.

-- 4 of 5 --

REFERENCES
[1] P. P. Srinivasan, B. Deng, X. Zhang, M. Tancik, B. Mildenhall, and J. T.
Barron, “NeRV: Neural Reflectance and Visibility Fields for Relighting
and View Synthesis,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2021.
[2] D. Verbin, P. Hedman, B. Mildenhall, T. Zickler, J. T. Barron, and
P. P. Srinivasan, “Ref-NeRF: Structured View-Dependent Appearance for
Neural Radiance Fields,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2022.
[3] Y. Zhang, J. Sun, X. He, H. Fu, R. Jia, and X. Zhou, “Modeling Indirect
Illumination for Inverse Rendering,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2022.
[4] Y. Shi, Y. Wu, C. Wu, X. Liu, C. Zhao, H. Feng, J. Liu, L. Zhang,
J. Zhang, B. Zhou et al., “GIR: 3D Gaussian Inverse Rendering
for Relightable Scene Factorization,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.05133,
2023.
[5] L. Ma, V. Agrawal, H. Turki, C. Kim, C. Gao, P. Sander, M. Zollh¨ofer,
and C. Richardt, “SpecNeRF: Gaussian Directional Encoding for Spec-
ular Reflections,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.13102, 2023.
[6] Y.-C. Guo, D. Kang, L. Bao, Y. He, and S.-H. Zhang, “NeRFReN: Neu-
ral Radiance Fields With Reflections,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2022.
[7] J. Zeng, C. Bao, R. Chen, Z. Dong, G. Zhang, H. Bao, and Z. Cui,
“Mirror-NeRF: Learning Neural Radiance Fields for Mirrors with
Whitted-Style Ray Tracing,” in Proceedings of the ACM International
Conference on Multimedia (ACM MM), 2023.
[8] T. Whitted, “An improved illumination model for shaded display,” in
ACM Siggraph 2005 Courses, 2005.
[9] B. Kerbl, G. Kopanas, T. Leimk¨uhler, and G. Drettakis, “3D Gaussian
Splatting for Real-Time Radiance Field Rendering,” ACM Transactions
on Graphics (TOG), 2023.
[10] S. Yang, Y. Wang, H. Li, J. Meng, X. Meng, and J. Zhang, “Fourier123:
One Image to High-Quality 3D Object Generation with Hybrid Fourier
Score Distillation,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.20669, 2024.
[11] W. Yifan, F. Serena, S. Wu, C. ¨Oztireli, and O. Sorkine-Hornung,
“Differentiable Surface Splatting for Point-based Geometry Processing,”
ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG), 2019.
[12] M. Zwicker, H. Pfister, J. Van Baar, and M. Gross, “EWA Volume
Splatting,” in IEEE Conference on Visualization (VIS), 2001.
[13] G. Kopanas, T. Leimk¨uhler, G. Rainer, C. Jambon, and G. Drettakis,
“Neural Point Catacaustics for Novel-View Synthesis of Reflections,”
ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG), 2022.
[14] G. Kopanas, J. Philip, T. Leimk¨uhler, and G. Drettakis, “Point-Based
Neural Rendering with Per-View Optimization,” Proceedings of the
Eurographics Symposium on Rendering (EGSR), 2021.
[15] M. Kaess, “Simultaneous Localization and Mapping with Infinite
Planes,” in Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on
Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 2015.
[16] A. Costanzino, P. Z. Ramirez, M. Poggi, F. Tosi, S. Mattoccia, and
L. Di Stefano, “Learning Depth Estimation for Transparent and Mirror
Surfaces,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on
Computer Vision (ICCV), 2023.
[17] J. Luiten, G. Kopanas, B. Leibe, and D. Ramanan, “Dynamic 3D Gaus-
sians: Tracking by Persistent Dynamic View Synthesis,” in Proceedings
of the International Conference on 3D Vision (3DV), 2024.
[18] M. A. Fischler and R. C. Bolles, “Random Sample Consensus: A
Paradigm for Model Fitting with Applications to Image Analysis and
Automated Cartography,” Communications of the ACM, 1981.
[19] T. M¨uller, A. Evans, C. Schied, and A. Keller, “Instant Neural Graphics
Primitives with a Multiresolution Hash Encoding,” ACM Transactions
on Graphics (TOG), 2022.
[20] C. Sun, M. Sun, and H.-T. Chen, “Direct Voxel Grid Optimization:
Super-Fast Convergence for Radiance Fields Reconstruction,” in Pro-
ceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition (CVPR), 2022.
[21] Z. Wang, A. C. Bovik, H. R. Sheikh, and E. P. Simoncelli, “Image
Quality Assessment: From Error Visibility to Structural Similarity,”
IEEE Transactions on Image Processing (TIP), 2004.
[22] R. Zhang, P. Isola, A. A. Efros, E. Shechtman, and O. Wang, “The
Unreasonable Effectiveness of Deep Features as a Perceptual Metric,”
in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2018.

-- 5 of 5 --

