SUBMITTED TO IEEE TVCG 1
GlossyGS: Inverse Rendering of Glossy Objects
with 3D Gaussian Splatting
Shuichang Lai, Letian Huang, Jie Guo, Kai Cheng, Bowen Pan, Xiaoxiao Long, Jiangjing Lyu, Chengfei Lv,
Yanwen Guo
Abstract—Reconstructing objects from posed images is a
crucial and complex task in computer graphics and computer
vision. While NeRF-based neural reconstruction methods have
exhibited impressive reconstruction ability, they tend to be
time-comsuming. Recent strategies have adopted 3D Gaussian
Splatting (3D-GS) for inverse rendering, which have led to quick
and effective outcomes. However, these techniques generally have
difficulty in producing believable geometries and materials for
glossy objects, a challenge that stems from the inherent ambigui-
ties of inverse rendering. To address this, we introduce GlossyGS,
an innovative 3D-GS-based inverse rendering framework that
aims to precisely reconstruct the geometry and materials of
glossy objects by integrating material priors. The key idea is the
use of micro-facet geometry segmentation prior, which helps to
reduce the intrinsic ambiguities and improve the decomposition
of geometries and materials. Additionally, we introduce a normal
map prefiltering strategy to more accurately simulate the normal
distribution of reflective surfaces. These strategies are integrated
into a hybrid geometry and material representation that employs
both explicit and implicit methods to depict glossy objects.
We demonstrate through quantitative analysis and qualitative
visualization that the proposed method is effective to reconstruct
high-fidelity geometries and materials of glossy objects, and
performs favorably against state-of-the-arts.
Index Terms—Inverse Rendering, Neural Rendering
I. INTRODUCTION
RECONSTRUCTING objects with realistic materials us-
ing images from multiple viewpoints is a crucial and
complex task in computer graphics and computer vision. This
challenge is exacerbated when dealing with images taken
in uncontrolled settings where the lighting conditions are
unknown. Several methods [1]–[7] build on Neural Radiance
Fields (NeRFs) [8], using neural networks to depict objects’
materials and geometry. However, the required dense sampling
for rays undermines the efficiency of these inverse rendering
approaches. Recently, 3D Gaussian Splatting (3D-GS) [9] has
emerged as an effective strategy, offering high quality and real-
time performance.
Recent studies [10]–[12] try to build inverse rendering
pipelines based on 3D-GS. However, these methods mostly
Shuichang Lai and Letian Huang contributed equally.
Shuichang Lai, Bowen Pan, Jiangjing Lyu and Chengfei Lv are with Alibaba
Group (e-mail: laishuichang.lsc@alibaba-inc.com; bowen.pbw@alibaba-
inc.com; jiangjing.ljj@alibaba-inc.com; chengfei.lcf@alibaba-inc.com).
Letian Huang, Jie Guo and Yanwen Guo are with the National Key Lab
for Novel Software Technology, Nanjing University, Nanjing 210000, China
(e-mail: lthuang@smail.nju.edu.cn; guojie@nju.edu.cn; ywguo@nju.edu.cn).
Kai Cheng is with the school of artificial intelligence and data sci-
ence, University of Science and Technology of China, China (e-mail:
chengkai21@mail.ustc.edu.cn).
Xiaoxiao Long is with the Department of Computer Science, The University
of Hong Kong, Hong Kong (e-mail: xxlong@connect.hku.hk).
Jie Guo is the corresponding author.
perform well on non-specular objects. Till now, several chal-
lenges remain: specular highlights and environmental reflec-
tions introduce ambiguities, complicating the differentiation
between inherent textures and reflections, thus leading to low-
quality geometry reconstruction. Furthermore, microscopic
variations in the normals of glossy surfaces can change how
they look from distance. This is because tiny folds or protru-
sions can make microscopic smoothness appear rough. This
nonlinear relationship between microscopic normal changes
and appearance challenges 3D Gaussian-based forward shad-
ing methods, leading to inaccuracies in surface normal esti-
mation.
In this paper, we introduce GlossyGS, a novel 3D-GS-
based inverse rendering framework designed to accurately
identify the physical properties of glossy objects by incor-
porating material prior. The key idea of GlossyGS consists of
three aspects. Firstly, we introduce a normal map prefiltering
strategy that modifies the shading order by blending the
normals first. This approach improves the accuracy of sim-
ulating the normal distribution of glossy surfaces. Secondly,
we propose the micro-facet geometry segmentation prior to
adjust the micro-facet normal distribution and the geometry
of reflective surfaces. This prior significantly reduces the
inherent ambiguities in inverse rendering and enhances the
decomposition of both geometry and material properties. A
micro-facet geometry segmentation model is developed to
predict this prior using semantic representations derived from
large vision models. Finally, we design a hybrid geometry
and material representation that utilizes anchors to explicitly
represent the macroscopic coarse geometry while implicitly
employing feature vectors associated with these anchors to
predict multiple neural Gaussians. These neural Gaussians are
essential for precisely simulating the normal distribution and
material properties of the micro-facet, offering a detailed and
realistic representation of glossy objects’ surfaces. Extensive
experimental results show that our approach can reconstruct
high-fidelity geometries and materials of glossy objects, lead-
ing to state-of-the-art rendering for relighting. To summarize,
our main contributions are three-fold.
• We propose the micro-facet geometry segmentation prior
to minimize the inherent ambiguities in inverse render-
ing, consequently enhancing the decomposition of both
geometry and material properties.
• We introduce a normal map prefiltering strategy that
changes the shading order, enhancing the simulation of
the normal distribution for glossy surfaces.
• We design a hybrid geometry and material representa-
arXiv:2410.13349v1 [cs.CV] 17 Oct 2024

-- 1 of 13 --

SUBMITTED TO IEEE TVCG 2
Input 	Relighting 	Material Editing
Fig. 1. We present an innovative 3D-GS-based inverse rendering framework that aims to precisely reconstruct the geometries and materials of glossy objects
by integrating priors from glossy appearance analysis. The well disentangled geometric and material properties allow us to achieve high-quality relighting (the
second and third columns) and material editing (the fourth and fifth columns), especially on highly glossy objects.
tion tailored for glossy objects, achieving state-of-the-art
inverse rendering results.
II. RELATED WORK
A. 3D Gaussian Splatting
3D Gaussian Splatting (3D-GS) [9] has achieved high-
fidelity real-time neural rendering by splatting the Gaussian
primitives onto the image plane for a fast tile-based ras-
terization, instead of densely sampling points on the rays
like Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) [8], [13] for a slow
volume rendering. Due to its real-time performance, some
works attempt to integrate the efficient explicit representation
into human modeling [14]–[19], dynamic scenes [20]–[22],
large-scale scenes [23], [24] and slam [25]–[27], etc. Gaussian
Editors [28], [29] facilitate editing of the appearance and
geometry of 3D-GS through the diffusion model [30]–[32].
SuGaR [33] and 2D-GS [34], analyze the surface representa-
tion capability of Gaussians and propose a method for rep-
resenting Gaussians’ normals, facilitating the extraction from
Gaussians into traditional meshes. Our method also employs
a high-fidelity normal map prefiltering strategy to facilitate
the inverse rendering for glossy objects, which enables photo-
realistic relighting and material editing.
Furthermore, there are some works focusing on addressing
the current limitations of 3D-GS. Yu et al. [35] utilizes a
3D smoothing filter and a 2D mip filter to reduce aliasing
when zooming in and zooming out. Huang et al. [36] proposes
an optimal projection strategy by minimizing projection er-
rors, resulting in photo-realistic rendering under various focal
lengths and various camera models. Radl et al. [37] and
Bul`o et al. [38] conduct analysis and improvements based on
3D Gaussians’ depth sorting and density control respectively.
Scaffold-GS [39] employs a hierarchical hybrid representation
of scenes through the combination of explicit 3D Gaussians
and implicit MLP layers, significantly reducing the storage
overhead of 3D-GS. Our method leverages the hybrid structure
to infer neural Gaussians and neural materials and introduce
the similarity of material within latent features to constrain
material ambiguities. These designs facilitate the success of
inverse rendering of glossy objects.
B. Inverse Rendering of Glossy Objects
Reconstruction and inverse rendering of a glossy object
from mult-view images has been a challenging task due to
the complex light interactions and ambiguities [40]–[49].
NeRO [2] use Integrated Directional Encoding (IDE) like
Ref-NeRF [50] and employs a two-stage inverse rendering
strategy. The first stage uses split-sum approximation [3] to
accelerate integral calculations, while the second stage em-
ploys Monte Carlo sampling to refine materials. TensoIR [4]
employs TensoRF [51] as its geometry representation and
utilizes ray marching to compute indirect illumination and
visibility. NMF [7] uses a microfacet reflectance model within
a volumetric setting by treating each sample along the ray as a
(potentially non-opaque) surface. However, these methods that
rely on implicit representations [1]–[6], [50], [52], [53] involve
densely sampled points along rays, leading to a significant
decrease in the performance of inverse rendering.
Some works [10], [12] aim to employ 3D-GS [9] as an
explicit representation of scenes in order to enhance the perfor-
mance of inverse rendering. GaussianShader [12] decomposes
the original color attributes into three components including
diffuse, specular and residual color for modeling the color
of reflective surfaces. In GS-IR [10], a technique similar to
light probes [54] is employed to obtain the indirect light
and ambient occlusion. However, these methods [10], [12]
face challenges in representing accurate surfaces and materials
using 3D Gaussians without correlation and suffer from the

-- 2 of 13 --

SUBMITTED TO IEEE TVCG 3
Anchors
Neural 3D Gaussians
mean: 𝛍
cov: 𝚺
opacity: 𝑜
Points
𝐍 = 𝐰𝜶T𝐧
Normal Map Prefiltering
roughness 	metallic 	normal	albedo
normal: 𝐧
albedo: 𝐚
roughness: 𝑟
metallic: 𝑚
Neural BRDF
Rendering
Micro-facet Geometry
Segmentation
Micro-facet Geometry Segmentation Prior
Ground-truth
Image
Operation Flow 	Supervision Flow
𝐰𝜶: 𝑤 = 𝛼 ෑ(1 − 𝛼)
𝐂 = shading(𝐍)
Physically-Based
Shading
𝜔𝑜 𝐍 	t
Differentiable Envlight
Macroscropic
Features
Micro-facet
Features
Init.
GS Decoder
ℱ𝑔
ℱ𝑚−𝑒 	ℱ𝑚−𝑑
Fig. 2. Illustration of the inverse rendering pipeline for our GlossyGS. The initial points are used to generate anchors, which carry the macroscopic features.
These features are fed to GS decoder and material encoder, generating neural 3D Gaussians and neural materials (BRDF). Normal map prefiltering is used as
a prefilter for these neural Gaussians and materials to obtain the corresponding material maps. The final rendering is shading of these maps and differentiable
environment lighting, supervised by ground-truth images and micro-facet geometry segmentation prior.
ambiguities between macroscopic normal and microscopic
roughness, resulting in lower quality of inverse rendering. In
contrast, our method effectively addresses these issues.
III. METHOD
In this section, we present our approach, GlossyGS, tailored
for the inverse rendering of glossy objects, as illustrated in
Fig. 2. To achieve fast and high-quality reconstruction of
glossy objects, we employ a hybrid explicit-implicit geometry
and material representation to infer neural Gaussians and
materials (BRDFs). Our experiments reveal that the shading
order of the Gaussians negatively impacts the geometry recon-
struction of glossy objects. To mitigate this issue, we propose
a normal map prefiltering strategy, which allows us to first
generate material maps, subsequently using them to obtain
the final rendered images through shading. Another factor
affecting the reconstruction of glossy objects is the ambiguities
arising from the coupling of microscopic and macroscopic
normal distributions. To address this problem, we introduce
a micro-facet geometry segmentation prior. Furthermore, we
develop a segmentation model that learns this prior based on
our custom-built dataset.
A. Preliminaries
3D Gaussian Splatting [9] 3D Gaussian Splatting takes the
sparse point clouds generated during the SFM [55] calibration
as input. From these points, it constructs a set of 3D Gaussians
as graphical primitives explicitly representing the scene. Each
graphic primitive is characterized by Gaussian mean μ and
covariance matrix Σ, as well as opacity o to represent vol-
umetric density, and is characterized by spherical harmonic
(SH) coefficients to represent appearance.
The 3D primitives are projected to 2D screen space, and
rasterized using α-blending. The α-blending weights are given
as
wk = αk
k−1	Y
j=1
(1 − αj ) , (1)
where α is given by o · g. The projected Gaussian function g
at pixel (u, v) is represented by:
g (u, v) = e

− 1
2

[u,v]⊤−μ′ ⊤
Σ′ −1
[u,v]⊤−μ′ 
(2)
where μ′
= proj (μ) and Σ′
= proj (Σ) represent the pro-
jected 2D mean and covariance matrix, respectively. The pixel
color at (u, v) is calculated using α-blending with spherical
harmonics (SH) as follows:
C (u, v) =
N	X
k=1
SHk (u, v) wk, (3)
where SHk (u, v) represents the color of the kth primitive at
pixel (u, v). Expanding this method to include attributes like
normal and shading gives as:
Y (u, v) =
N	X
k=1
ykwk, (4)
a formula commonly used in inverse rendering tasks based on
3D-GS [10]–[12]. In this work, we utilize a modified 3D-GS
approach for high-quality, real-time inverse rendering.
Cook-Torrance BRDF [56] We follow the Cook-Torrance
model [56] and formulate the bidirectional reflectance distri-
bution function (BRDF) as follow:
f (ωi, ωo) = (1 − m) a
π	| {z }
diffuse
+ DFG
4(ωi · n)(ωo · n)
| {z }
specular
, (5)
where m ∈ [0, 1] is the metallic of the point, a ∈ [0, 1]3 is
the albedo color of the point, n denotes the surface normal,
ωi denotes the incident direction, ωo denotes the outgoing
view direction. D, F , and G refer to the normal distribution
function, the Fresnel term, and the geometry term respectively.
D, F , and G are generally determined by the metallic m,
the roughness r ∈ [0, 1] and the albedo a. To tackle the
intractable radiance integral, we adopt image-based lighting

-- 3 of 13 --

SUBMITTED TO IEEE TVCG 4
(IBL) model and split-sum approximation [3] following [2].
Here, the lighting integral is approximated as:
c(ωo) = cdiffuse + cspecular(ωo), (6)
cdiffuse = a(1 − m) ·
Z
Ω
L(ωi) ωi · n
π dωi
| {z }
Ld
, (7)
cspecular(ωo) =
Z
Ω
L(ωi) DFG
4(ωo · n) dωi
≈
Z
Ω
DFG
4(ωo · n) dωi
| {z }
Ms
·
Z
Ω
D(r, t)L(ωi)dωi
| {z }
Ls
, (8)
where Ls denotes the integral of lights on the micro-facet nor-
mal distribution function D(r, t), t is the reflective direction,
Ld denotes the diffuse light integral, Ms denotes the integral
of BRDF.
B. Hybrid Geometry and Material Representation
Inspired by Scaffold-GS [39], we adopt a hybrid explicit-
implicit geometry representation and employ neural networks
to generate neural Gaussians to represent objects. Specifically,
the sparse point cloud from COLMAP [55] is initialized as
anchors, with each anchor equipped with a feature vector
fmacro, a scaling factor s, and learnable offsets. We then employ
the GS decoder Fg to generate neural Gaussians that represent
the geometry of objects:
μ, Σ, o = Fg (fmacro, xanchor) (9)
where xanchor denotes positions of the anchors and μ, Σ, o de-
note attributes of 3D Gaussians. We further extend this hybrid
representation to BRDF materials. Since the fmacro contains
complete Gaussian geometry and material information, we
use the material encoder Fm−e to generate high-dimensional
micro-facet features
fmicro = Fm−e (fmacro) , (10)
which are then decoded to obtain material attributes
r, m, n, a = Fm−d (fmicro) (11)
where r, m are the roughness and metallic of the Gaussian
respectively. And n, a are the normal and albedo color of the
Gaussian, respectively. This representation not only reduces
the storage cost of materials but also enhances the correlation
between materials in local space for they share a common
MLP. For more details about MLP structures, please refer to
the supplementary material.
Building on this design, we devise a smooth, low-
dimensional manifold for material representation. This con-
tiguous manifold ensures smooth variations in material at-
tributes, thereby preventing the abrupt changes caused by
incorrect gradients. This approach not only stabilizes the
optimization process but also enhances the robustness of our
network, ensuring a more reliable and consistent performance
in material representation. In practice, we apply a smoothness
regularization on the decoder Fm−d,
Ls = ∥Fm−d(fmicro) − Fm−d(fmicro + ξ)∥1 (12)
where ξ denotes a random variable sampled from a normal
distribution with mean 0 and variance 0.01.
Additionally, since our geometric and material attributes
are still discrete, our hybrid representation retains the high
performance of the vanilla 3D-GS [9] by projecting them onto
the image plane and performing α-blending instead of dense
sampling of points along rays.
C. Normal Map Prefiltering
View:
𝐀 	= 	𝐀1𝐀1 	+ 	𝐀2𝐀2
𝐀𝐀
𝐀𝐀
GS1:
𝐀1 	= 	shading(𝐀𝐀)
GS2:
𝐀2 	= 	shading(𝐀𝐀)
(a) Shading on 3D Gaussian
Surface:
𝐀𝐀 	= 	shading(𝐀)
𝐀𝐀
𝐀𝐀
𝐀 	= 	𝐀1𝐀𝐀 	+ 	𝐀2𝐀𝐀
View: 	𝐀 	= 	𝐀𝐀
 (b) Shading on Surface
Shading on GS 	Shading on Surface
Specular	Non-Specular
Shading on Surface 	Shading on GS
(c) Impacts of the order of shading and α-blending on different materials
Fig. 3. Normal Map Prefiltering. n1, n2, N represent the normal of
Gaussian 1, Gaussian 2, and the true surface, respectively. c1, c2, cs rep-
resent the shading results of Gaussian 1, Gaussian 2, and the true surface,
respectively. C represents the color of the pixel, and w1 and w2 represent
the weights for α-blending. (a) is the current approach used by 3D-GS-based
IR methods [11], [12]. (b) On the other hand, our normal map prefiltering
considers the nonlinearity of normals with respect to specular color (c) which
has a significant impact on the rendering results of glossy objects.
Accurately predicting normals on reflective surfaces
presents a formidable challenge. Through Eqn. (6), it can
be inferred that shading of non-specular objects satisfies the
following equation with respect to the surface normals n:
N	X
k=1
wkcdiffuse =
N	X
k=1
wka(1 − m) ·
Z
Ω
L(ωi) ωi · n
π dωi
= a(1 − m) ·
Z
Ω
L(ωi)
ωi ·
PN
k=1 wkn

π dωi.
(13)
Diffuse color is linear in the normal. Eqn. (4) also tells that
α-blending in 3D-GS [9] is a linear operation. Therefore, for
diffuse objects, the order of α-blending and shading has little
effect on the final color. However, specular reflection does not
satisfy this linear relationship, i.e.,
N	X
k=1
wkcspecular =
N	X
k=1
wk
Z
Ω
L(ωi) DF G
4(ωo · n) dωi
̸
=
Z
Ω
L(ωi) DF G
4

ωo ·
PN
k=1 wkn
 dωi.
(14)
Therefore, the order of shading and α-blending is crucial
for inverse rendering of glossy objects. Unfortunately, current

-- 4 of 13 --

SUBMITTED TO IEEE TVCG 5
methods mostly ignore the influence of this order, resulting in
unsatisfactory inverse rendering results for glossy objects.
The above-mentioned two different orders are demonstrated
in Fig. 3. They differ when the shading function is non-
linear in the normal. Most 3D-GS-based inverse rendering
methods [10]–[12] employ the gradient of the depth map as the
normal supervision strategy. Since the depth map represents
the depth of the true surface, it is necessary to perform shading
on the surface instead of shading on 3D Gaussians from this
perspective. Furthermore, we demonstrate the visual impact of
the shading order for different materials in Fig. 3c. Given the
linear relationship between diffuse color and normal, the order
of shading does not significantly affect the appearance of non-
specular objects. However, for specular objects, performing
shading first and then applying α-blending leads to a blurred
appearance caused by the linear blending of the ambient
lighting sampled from multiple reflective directions (the red
arrows in Fig. 3a). This approach fails to accurately capture
the environment reflections. In contrast, we reverse the order
by blending the normals first, enabling us to maintain a more
precise representation of the surface normal. By subsequently
sampling the ambient lighting based on a single reflective
direction (the red arrow in Fig. 3b), we achieve a more realistic
rendering of specular objects. These different rendering results
stem from the nonlinear relationship between the shading
function and the normal for glossy objects. Our proposed
normal prefiltering strategy successfully address this issue.
D. Micro-facet Geometry Segmentation Prior
𝐀
𝐀
𝐀𝐀
(a) Large r and low-frequency n
𝐀𝐀	
𝐀
 (b) Small r and high-frequency n
Ground-truth
Image
Case 1:
Roughness
Case 1:
Normal
Case 2:
Roughness
Case 2:
Normal
(c) Different roughness-normal pairs corresponding to the GT image
Fig. 4. Ambiguities Between Macroscopic Normal and Microscopic
Roughness. ωo, n, t, r represent outgoing view direction, normal, reflected
light, and roughness respectively. (a) represents large roughness and simple
normal, while (b) is the opposite, with complex normal and each plane can be
considered as a specular reflection with smaller roughness. Both can represent
the same reflective object, leading to the occurrence of Case 1 and Case 2 in
(c).
The failure in reconstructing glossy objects is mainly at-
tributed to the ambiguities arising from the coupling of mi-
croscopic and macroscopic normal distributions introduced by
the micro-facet model [56]. The initial motivation behind the
introduction of the micro-facet model is to represent complex
materials in situations where the geometry is not excessively
complex, thus reducing the storage overhead associated with
geometry. The success of this model relies on the ability of
the microscopic normal distribution D(r, t) characterized by
roughness r to produce visual effects similar to the macro-
scopic normal n. However, achieving similar visual effects
poses a challenge for inverse rendering tasks.
As shown in Fig. 4a and 4b, a low-frequency macro-
scopic normal distribution with a large roughness and a
high-frequency macroscopic normal distribution with a small
roughness can model the same glossy appearance. This leads
to different roughness-normal pairs for the individual object
as shown in Fig. 4c. The introduction of environmental light
information leads to visual color inconsistencies in parts
that were expected to have the same roughness, while parts
that were expected to have different roughness exhibit visual
color consistency as shown in Fig. 4c. This complicates the
decoupling of microscopic roughness and macroscopic normal,
making it challenging to obtain accurate solutions through
simple inverse rendering gradient backpropagation.
Ideally, we can directly apply roughness priors to narrow
down the solution space, effectively alleviating ambiguities.
However, we still encounter challenges in estimating rough-
ness, particularly when working with a single image, as it
is impossible to completely separate this from the unknown
lighting conditions. To address this issue, we propose a prior
for segmenting the geometry of micro-facets, which helps
eliminate cases like Case 2 in Figure 4c. In these cases,
the solutions satisfy the rendering equations [57] but do not
correspond to real-world glossy objects, unlike Case 1 shown
in the same figure. In specific terms, we segment the roughness
of glossy objects, with each segment representing a consistent
roughness value. This prior serves to constrain the micro-facet
normal distribution and geometry of reflective objects.
E. Micro-facet Geometry Segmentation Model
Similar to semantic segmentation, the micro-facet geom-
etry segmentation model can be formulated as a mapping
function from the image domain to the output label domain:
I → B, which predicts a pixel-wise category label B ∈
{0, ..., C}H×W , where H and W denote the image size, C
is the total number of roughness categories. Given that an
object is usually composed of a limited number of materials,
we assume that a single object can be composed of up to
6 roughness categories. Accordingly, we sort the values in
the roughness map and select the top C most frequently
occurring values to to filter the corresponding pixels for each
category. Pixels that are not selected are categorized as label
0, excluding the background.
During training, we employ the cross-entropy loss defined
as follows:
Lce (I, B) = −
H	X
u=1
W	X
v=1
C	X
c=1
b(u,v),c log p(u,v) (c | I) , (15)
where (u, v) are the pixel coordinates in the input image I,
c is the category index, b(u,v),c ∈ {0, 1} is entry in the one-
hot vector of the ground-truth label, and p(u,v) (c | I) is the
predicted category probability for category c at pixel (u, v).
Since roughness is an intrinsic characteristic of a material,
it can be challenging to observe directly. To address this issue,

-- 5 of 13 --

SUBMITTED TO IEEE TVCG 6
we utilize existing pre-trained vision models as the backbone
for our optimization process. DINOv2 [58] models have been
widely adopted across various semantic-related tasks, such
as image retrieval and semantic segmentation, demonstrating
robust performance even when using frozen weights without
any fine-tuning. To leverage this impressive semantic capabil-
ity in our segmentation model, we propose incorporating the
DINOv2 encoder for feature extraction. Specifically, we utilize
the DINOv2 encoder to capture rich feature representations
and pair it with the DPT decoder [59] to perform effective
segmentation. This design enables the network to learn to
distinguish similar roughness regions by leveraging semantic-
aware representations derived from DINOv2, utilizing our
custom-built dataset. As shown in Fig. 5, the segmentation
model can accurately partition regions of varying roughness,
thereby ensuring that the reconstructed roughness is both
smooth and reasonable.
Scene Segmentation w/ prior w/o prior
Fig. 5. Visualizing the results of micro-facet geometry segmentation and
the effect of the segmentation prior. Without the segmentation prior, the
reconstructed roughness is noisy and lacks smoothness. Note that there is
no available ground-truth roughness in these examples.
F. The Inverse Rendering Framework
Based on the micro-facet geometry segmentation prior and
the normal map prefiltering strategy, we propose a method for
reconstructing high-fidelity geometries and materials of glossy
objects from a set of posed images Is. An overview of our
approach is presented in Fig. 2. Initially, we obtain the geomet-
ric and material attributes of each Gaussian through network
inference. Subsequently, using α-blending as described in
Eqn. (4), we prefilter the maps for each attribute. We then
utilize these maps along with the rendering equation [57], to
perform shading and produce the final image, denoted as ˆI.
Due to the fact that the maps represent the attributes of the
true surface rather than the 3D Gaussians, and considering
the nonlinearity of shading with respect to the normal, our
approach yields more accurate results compared to directly
shading on 3D Gaussians. Furthermore, the calculation of
environment mipmaps follows the same methodology as that
of [10], [12].
During training, the learnable parameters and MLPs are
jointly optimized by minimizing the reconstruction loss L,
represented as:
L = Lc + λsLs + λeLe + λnLn. (16)
Lc denotes the combined image loss, similar to the approach
used in Scaffold-GS [39], defined as follows:
Lc = L1 + λSSIM LSSIM + λvolLvol. (17)
In this equation, the parameters λSSIM and λvol are set to 0.2
and 0.001, respectively.
The roughness constraint loss Le leverages the consistent
roughness within segmented regions to supervise the rough-
ness map Iρ. Specifically, it is defined as follows:
S(c) = {Iρ(u, v) | ˆ	B(u, v) = c}, (18)
Le = X
c∈C
v
u
u
t 1
|S(c)| − 1
|S(c)|	
X
i=1
(zi − ¯z)2, (19)
where zi ∈ S(c) and ¯z represents the mean value of the ele-
ments within S(c). Additionally, ˆ	B represents the segmented
labels obtained from the micro-facet geometry segmentation
model applied to the images ˆI. During the inverse rendering
process, minimizing loss Le involves fitting a more accurate
macroscopic normal distribution, thereby achieving improved
geometry reconstruction of glossy objects.
Ln is a normal loss that correlates the local geometry with
the predicted normals by reducing the discrepancy between the
gradient normal maps ˆnD that are calculated from the rendered
depth maps and the rendered normal maps ˆn, defined as:
Ln = ∥ˆn − ˆnD ∥ . (20)
The parameters λs, λe, and λn are all set to 0.01 in our
experiments.
IV. IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS
In this section, we present our datasets, and training details.
a) Datasets and Metrics: We conduct experiments on
two synthetic datasets, Shiny Blender [50] and Glossy Syn-
thetic [2], and two real datasets, Stanford-ORB [60] and
NeILF-HDR [61]. To further demonstrate the robustness of
our method, we also captured two real scenes under indoor
lighting. Following the official guidelines, images in the
Stanford-ORB dataset are resized to a resolution of 512 × 512
for training and testing. We utilize tone mapping to convert
high-dynamic range (HDR) images from the NeILF-HDR
dataset into low-dynamic range (LDR) images. To evaluate
the quality of the estimated normals, we compare estimated
normal images with the ground truth using the mean angular
error (MAE). Regarding rendering quality, we use PSNR,
SSIM and LPIPS [62] to evaluate the similarity between the
rendered images and the ground truth images.

-- 6 of 13 --

SUBMITTED TO IEEE TVCG 7
TABLE I
QUANTITATIVE COMPARISON OF NORMAL RECONSTRUCTION AND
RELIGHTING RESULTS ON THE SHINY BLENDER [50] DATASET. BOLD
MEANS THE BEST PERFORMANCE AND UNDERLINE MEANS THE SECOND
BEST.
NeRO NMF Gshader GSIR Ours
PSNR↑ 21.53 25.17 21.17 21.95 25.72
SSIM↑ 0.858 0.916 0.867 0.857 0.93
LPIPS↓ 0.144 0.119 0.133 0.152 0.103
normal MAE↓ 3.02 1.81 6.81 9.06 2.82
training time↓ 12h 4h 1.2h 1.1h 1h
rendering FPS↑ 0.03 0.04 16 30 32
TABLE II
QUANTITATIVE COMPARISON OF NOVEL VIEW SYNTHESIS RESULTS ON
THE GLOSSY SYNTHETIC [2] DATASET. BOLD MEANS THE BEST
PERFORMANCE.
NeRO NMF Gshader GSIR Ours
PSNR↑ 29.73 28.22 28.65 25.35 30.46
SSIM↑ 0.904 0.926 0.943 0.899 0.960
LPIPS↓ 0.324 0.091 0.072 0.101 0.049
b) Micro-facet Geometry Segmentation Prior Model
Training: We collect training data by randomly picking
100,000 objects with roughness maps from the Objaverse
dataset [63]. We render each object in ten random poses
against five random HDR environment maps to capture a
variety of realistic lighting conditions. The base learning rate
of the pre-trained encoder is set as 5e − 6, while the randomly
initialized decoder uses a 10× larger learning rate. We employ
the AdamW optimizer and reduce the learning rate by a factor
of 0.8 every five epochs. Additionally, we apply horizontal
flipping as a form of data augmentation. The training process
runs for approximately three days on four NVIDIA A100
GPUs.
c) Inverse Rendering: The GlossyGS model is trained on
a single NVIDIA V100 GPU with 32GB memory, completing
the training process in approximately 1 hour for images at an
800 × 800 resolution. It achieves a rendering speed of around
30 FPS at the same resolution on the V100 GPU. Additionally,
the learnable environment map has a resolution of 256 × 512.
V. RESULTS
In this section, we compare our method with the following
two types of baseline methods. (1) 3D-GS-based methods:
Gshader [12] and GSIR [10]. (2) NeRF-based methods:
neural microfacet fields (NMF) [7] and NeRO [2]. For all these
methods, we use their official implementations. While NeRF-
based methods can achieve impressive reconstruction results,
they are notably time-consuming.
A. Results on synthetic data
We conduct quantitative and qualitative evaluations on two
synthetic datasets, examining normal reconstruction, material
decomposition, novel view synthesis, and relighting.
Visual comparisons of the normal reconstruction on syn-
thetic datasets are illustrated in Fig. 6, highlighting our
method’s capability in reconstructing surfaces exhibiting sub-
stantial reflection, alongside the recovery of detailed geome-
tries (the nuanced folds of the clothing in the Angel scene).
NeRO [2] exhibits remarkable reconstruction ability when
applied to simple specular objects, but when applied to more
complex scenarios, it tends to converge on local minima,
leading to inaccurate geometries (pointed by the red box in
the Luyu scene). NMF [7] can roughly recover geometry, but
it tends to lose fine details (the missing door handle in the
Car scene). Gshader [12] often incorrectly overfits highlights
by exploiting geometric indentations, due to its forward shad-
ing mode. GSIR [10] excels in reconstructing non-specular
surfaces but face difficulties with surfaces showing strong
reflections. We report the quantitative metrics on the Shiny
Blender [50] dataset in Tab. I. Our method demonstrates su-
perior performance in relighting quality compared to baseline
methods, highlighting the effectiveness of inverse rendering.
Importantly, our method achieves the shortest training time,
demonstrating a 4× improvement over NeRF-based methods,
which showcases its efficiency. Furthermore, we attain the
highest relighting rendering frame rate, thanks to our hybrid
geometry and material representation.
Additionally, we showcase the estimated BRDFs (albedo,
roughness and metallic) in Fig. 7. Thanks to the micro-facet
geometry segmentation prior and the roughness constraint
loss, the roughness maps tend to be smooth and physically-
plausible, which reduces the ambiguities in inverse rendering
and enhances the decoupling of albedo and metallic. This
contrasts with other methods that inaccurately assign lighting
effects to albedo maps. The reconstructed environment maps,
as illustrated in Fig. 8, further support our method’s ability
to effectively decouple the BRDFs, allowing for a nearly
complete restoration of the environment map. In contrast,
GShader can only generate noisy images with many holes,
while GSIR struggles with poor environmental maps due to
its failure to decouple light from the albedo.
Our method excels in novel view synthesis and relighting,
outperforming others, as evidenced in Tab. I and Tab. II.
Fig. 10 highlights our success in capturing specular reflections
in novel view synthesis. Furthermore, as shown in Fig. 9,
our relighting results produce realistic visualizations and ef-
fectively recover specular highlights. NeRO mainly suffers
from a loss of geometric details, leading to blurred highlight
details (pointed by the red box in the Horse scene). NMF and
GShader both encounter issues with geometries and materials,
resulting in inferior relighting quality. Meanwhile, GSIR pro-
duces diffuse materials and struggles to model high-frequency
effects.
B. Results on real data
We first evaluate our method on the NeILF-HDR dataset
[61] and several real scenes captured by ourself, as shown in
Fig. 11. We compare our method with the other four methods
on normal reconstruction. As seen, our approach effectively
handles surfaces with strong highlights and recovers geomet-
ric details. In contrast, GShader [12] demonstrates unstable
geometry recovery, resulting in some voids, as shown in the

-- 7 of 13 --

SUBMITTED TO IEEE TVCG 8
Scene NeRO NMF Gshader GSIR Ours GT
Car
N/A
Luyu
N/A
Angel
Fig. 6. Comparison of normal reconstruction among our method, NMF [7], NeRO [2], Gshader [12] and GSIR [10] on the Shiny Blender [50] (the first row),
Glossy Synthetic datasets [2](the second and third rows). Note that there is no available ground-truth normal in the Glossy Synthetic dataset.
Scene NeRO albedo GSIR albedo Our albedo Our metallic Our roughness Our relighting
Fig. 7. Comparison of the estimated BRDFs among our method, NeRO [2] and GSIR [10] on the Shiny Blender dataset [50].
Scene Gshader GSIR Ours Reference
Fig. 8. Comparison of environment maps among our method, Gshader [12] and GSIR [10] on the Glossy Synthetic dataset [2].

-- 8 of 13 --

SUBMITTED TO IEEE TVCG 9
New lighting NeRO NMF Gshader GSIR Ours GT
Angel
Horse
Luyu
Fig. 9. Comparison of relighting results among our method, NMF [7], NeRO [2], Gshader [12] and GSIR [10] on the Glossy Synthetic dataset [2].
NeRO NMF Gshader GSIR Ours GT
Fig. 10. Comparison of novel view synthesis among our method, NMF [7], NeRO [2], Gshader [12] and GSIR [10] on the Glossy Synthetic [2] (the first
row), and Stanford-ORB dataset [60](the second row).
Qilin and Brassgourd scene. GS-IR [10] struggles to generate
smooth geometric surfaces. NeRF-based methods (NeRO [2]
and NMF [7]) can only generate coarse geometries without
details (pointed by the red box in the GoldenDragon scene).
The relighting results (as shown in the seventh column of
Fig. 11) further demonstrate the reliability of our material
reconstruction, as the specular highlights change appropriately
with variations in lighting conditions.
We also evaluate our method on four real glossy objects
from the Stanford-ORB [60] dataset. The quantitative mea-
surements of normal reconstruction and relighting results are
TABLE III
QUANTITATIVE COMPARISON OF NORMAL RECONSTRUCTION AND
RELIGHTING RESULTS ON THE STANFORD-ORB [60] DATASET. BOLD
MEANS THE BEST PERFORMANCE.
NeRO NMF Gshader GSIR Ours
PSNR↑ 27.35 25.64 25.76 28.04 30.3
SSIM↑ 0.969 0.944 0.957 0.962 0.975
LPIPS↓ 0.051 0.048 0.041 0.033 0.022
normal MAE↓ 1.84 1.81 2.01 2.69 1.75
shown in Tab. III. Our method outperforms all the other

-- 9 of 13 --

SUBMITTED TO IEEE TVCG 10
Scene NeRO NMF Gshader GSIR Ours Our relighting
Qilin
Brassgourd
GoldenDragon
CeramicElk
Fig. 11. Comparison of normal reconstruction and relighting results among our method, NMF [7], NeRO [2], Gshader [12] and GSIR [10] on the NEILF-HDR
[61] dataset (the first and second rows) and real captured scenes (the third and forth rows).
TABLE IV
ABLATION STUDIES ON THE RELIGHTING RESULTS USING OBJECTS FROM
THE GLOSSY SYNTHETIC DATASET [2]. BOLD MEANS THE BEST
PERFORMANCE.
PSNR↑ SSIM↑ LPIPS↓
w/o prior 23.51 0.898 0.098
w/o normal map prefiltering 24.61 0.922 0.072
w/o hybrid 23.52 0.902 0.082
Ours 25.47 0.928 0.068
methods. We also present the visual results in Fig. 12 and
Fig. 13. Again, we see that our method accurately reconstructs
geometries and materials, displaying glossiness in real-scene
relighting that matches the original objects. Conversely, prior
methods struggle to model geometry in highly glossy regions,
resulting in incorrect material properties and low-quality re-
lighting effects.
C. Ablation studies
In this subsection, we evaluate several design choices in our
pipeline by conducting ablation studies on them.
a) Micro-facet Geometry Segmentation Prior: We intro-
duce the micro-facet geometry segmentation prior to enhance
the decomposition of geometry and material properties. To
assess the effectiveness of the prior, we conduct a comparison
with a baseline model trained without the prior. As depicted in
Fig. 14, the baseline model incorrectly separates micro-scale
roughness and macro-scale normal, resulting in inaccurate
geometry. Utilizing prior knowledge, our method successfully
generates the correct normals. The data presented in Tab. IV
further confirm that the integration of the prior aids the model
in generating reliable materials.
b) Normal Map Prefiltering: To assess the effectiveness
of the strategy, we conduct an experiment by implementing the
training without normal prefiltering. The comparative analysis
between the relighting results is displayed in Fig. 14. In the
absence of normal prefiltering, the relighting results tend to
produce blurred visual appearance. However, our method is
capable of clearly mapping environmental lighting, achieving
results that are close to the ground truth.
c) Hybrid Geometry and Material Representation: We
utilize a hybrid explicit-implicit geometry representation to
generate neural Gaussians for representing glossy objects. To
validate the effectiveness of this strategy for inverse rendering,
we conducted an experiment using the explicit Gaussian design
in the same manner as Gshader [12]. As shown in Fig.

-- 10 of 13 --

SUBMITTED TO IEEE TVCG 11
Scene NeRO NMF Gshader GSIR Ours GT
Fig. 12. Comparison of normal reconstruction among our method, NMF [7], NeRO [2], Gshader [12] and GSIR [10] on the Stanford-ORB dataset [60].
New lighting NeRO NMF Gshader GSIR Ours GT
Fig. 13. Comparison of relighting among our method, NMF [7], NeRO [2], Gshader [12] and GSIR [10] on the Stanford-ORB [60] dataset.
w/o prior w/o prefiltering full color full normal GT color
Fig. 14. Validating the effect of the micro-facet geometry segmentation prior
and the normal map prefiltering in training.
15, without hybrid geometry and material representation, the
explicit Gaussian fails to produce realistic relighting results.
Quantitative metrics in Tab. IV further validate this.
VI. CONCLUSION
We have presented a new framework aimed at the effi-
cient reconstruction of glossy objects with 3D-GS. The key
w/o hybird w/ hybrid GT
Fig. 15. Validating the effect of the hybrid geometry and material represen-
tation.
challenge of reconstructing glossy objects is the inherent
ambiguities associated with inverse rendering. To tackle this
problem, we propose the micro-facet geometry segmentation
prior to significantly reduces the ambiguities and enhances
the decomposition of both geometry and material properties.
Additionally, we introduce a normal map prefiltering strat-
egy that enhances the GlossyGS’s ability to more accurately
simulate the normal distribution of glossy surfaces. Finally,
we introduce a hybrid geometry and material representation
tailored for glossy objects. Extensive experiments on both
synthetic and real datasets demonstrate consistently superior
performance of the proposed method.
Limitations and future work. Although GlossyGS can
accurately reconstruct the geometries and materials of glossy
objects without sacrificing performance, it still has some
limitations. One problem is that our method assumes distant

-- 11 of 13 --

SUBMITTED TO IEEE TVCG 12
Image Our normal Image Our normal
Fig. 16. Limitations. Our method struggles to remove interreflections,
resulting in incorrect geometries.
illumination, which means near-field lighting effects are not
considered. In reality, glossy objects often capture reflections
from the photographer, which change with camera angles, as
shown in Fig. 16. Additionally, our method does not effectively
handle interreflections due to our rendering scheme. In such
scenarios, while our carefully designed prior and prefiltering
strategy can minimize the impact of these reflections on
geometry, it still struggles to produce accurate geometries. One
potential solution is to model dynamic illumination similarly
to NeRO [2]. Furthermore, our method struggles with concave
surfaces due to viewpoint limitations, a common challenge
in geometry reconstruction. We plan to address this issue in
future work.
REFERENCES
[1] K. Zhang, F. Luan, Q. Wang, K. Bala, and N. Snavely, “Physg: Inverse
rendering with spherical gaussians for physics-based material editing and
relighting,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2021, pp. 5453–5462.
[2] Y. Liu, P. Wang, C. Lin, X. Long, J. Wang, L. Liu, T. Komura, and
W. Wang, “Nero: Neural geometry and brdf reconstruction of reflective
objects from multiview images,” ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG),
vol. 42, no. 4, pp. 1–22, 2023.
[3] B. Karis and E. Games, “Real shading in unreal engine 4,” Proc.
Physically Based Shading Theory Practice, vol. 4, no. 3, p. 1, 2013.
[4] H. Jin, I. Liu, P. Xu, X. Zhang, S. Han, S. Bi, X. Zhou, Z. Xu, and
H. Su, “Tensoir: Tensorial inverse rendering,” in Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition,
2023, pp. 165–174.
[5] P. P. Srinivasan, B. Deng, X. Zhang, M. Tancik, B. Mildenhall, and
J. T. Barron, “Nerv: Neural reflectance and visibility fields for relighting
and view synthesis,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2021, pp. 7495–7504.
[6] C. Zeng, G. Chen, Y. Dong, P. Peers, H. Wu, and X. Tong, “Relight-
ing neural radiance fields with shadow and highlight hints,” in ACM
SIGGRAPH 2023 Conference Proceedings, 2023, pp. 1–11.
[7] A. Mai, D. Verbin, F. Kuester, and S. Fridovich-Keil, “Neural microfacet
fields for inverse rendering,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Interna-
tional Conference on Computer Vision, 2023, pp. 408–418.
[8] B. Mildenhall, P. P. Srinivasan, M. Tancik, J. T. Barron, R. Ramamoorthi,
and R. Ng, “Nerf: Representing scenes as neural radiance fields for view
synthesis,” Communications of the ACM, vol. 65, no. 1, pp. 99–106,
2021.
[9] B. Kerbl, G. Kopanas, T. Leimk¨uhler, and G. Drettakis, “3d gaussian
splatting for real-time radiance field rendering,” ACM Transactions on
Graphics, vol. 42, no. 4, pp. 1–14, 2023.
[10] Z. Liang, Q. Zhang, Y. Feng, Y. Shan, and K. Jia, “Gs-ir: 3d gaus-
sian splatting for inverse rendering,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), June
2024, pp. 21 644–21 653.
[11] J. Gao, C. Gu, Y. Lin, H. Zhu, X. Cao, L. Zhang, and Y. Yao,
“Relightable 3d gaussian: Real-time point cloud relighting with brdf
decomposition and ray tracing,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.16043, 2023.
[12] Y. Jiang, J. Tu, Y. Liu, X. Gao, X. Long, W. Wang, and Y. Ma, “Gaus-
sianshader: 3d gaussian splatting with shading functions for reflective
surfaces,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), June 2024, pp. 5322–5332.
[13] J. T. Barron, B. Mildenhall, M. Tancik, P. Hedman, R. Martin-Brualla,
and P. P. Srinivasan, “Mip-nerf: A multiscale representation for anti-
aliasing neural radiance fields,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Inter-
national Conference on Computer Vision, 2021, pp. 5855–5864.
[14] S. Hu and Z. Liu, “Gauhuman: Articulated gaussian splatting from
monocular human videos,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.02973, 2023.
[15] L. Hu, H. Zhang, Y. Zhang, B. Zhou, B. Liu, S. Zhang, and L. Nie,
“Gaussianavatar: Towards realistic human avatar modeling from a single
video via animatable 3d gaussians,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.02134,
2023.
[16] S. Qian, T. Kirschstein, L. Schoneveld, D. Davoli, S. Giebenhain, and
M. Nießner, “Gaussianavatars: Photorealistic head avatars with rigged
3d gaussians,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.02069, 2023.
[17] A. Moreau, J. Song, H. Dhamo, R. Shaw, Y. Zhou, and E. P´erez-
Pellitero, “Human gaussian splatting: Real-time rendering of animatable
avatars,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.17113, 2023.
[18] M. Kocabas, J.-H. R. Chang, J. Gabriel, O. Tuzel, and A. Ranjan, “Hugs:
Human gaussian splats,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.17910, 2023.
[19] Z. Qian, S. Wang, M. Mihajlovic, A. Geiger, and S. Tang, “3dgs-avatar:
Animatable avatars via deformable 3d gaussian splatting,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2312.09228, 2023.
[20] Z. Lu, X. Guo, L. Hui, T. Chen, M. Yang, X. Tang, F. Zhu, and Y. Dai,
“3d geometry-aware deformable gaussian splatting for dynamic view
synthesis,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.06270, 2024.
[21] G. Wu, T. Yi, J. Fang, L. Xie, X. Zhang, W. Wei, W. Liu, Q. Tian, and
X. Wang, “4d gaussian splatting for real-time dynamic scene rendering,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.08528, 2023.
[22] X. Zhou, Z. Lin, X. Shan, Y. Wang, D. Sun, and M.-H. Yang, “Driv-
inggaussian: Composite gaussian splatting for surrounding dynamic
autonomous driving scenes,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.07920, 2023.
[23] J. Lin, Z. Li, X. Tang, J. Liu, S. Liu, J. Liu, Y. Lu, X. Wu, S. Xu, Y. Yan
et al., “Vastgaussian: Vast 3d gaussians for large scene reconstruction,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.17427, 2024.
[24] Y. Liu, H. Guan, C. Luo, L. Fan, J. Peng, and Z. Zhang, “Citygaussian:
Real-time high-quality large-scale scene rendering with gaussians,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.01133, 2024.
[25] H. Matsuki, R. Murai, P. H. Kelly, and A. J. Davison, “Gaussian splatting
slam,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.06741, 2023.
[26] C. Yan, D. Qu, D. Wang, D. Xu, Z. Wang, B. Zhao, and X. Li, “Gs-
slam: Dense visual slam with 3d gaussian splatting,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2311.11700, 2023.
[27] M. Li, S. Liu, and H. Zhou, “Sgs-slam: Semantic gaussian splatting for
neural dense slam,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.03246, 2024.
[28] Y. Chen, Z. Chen, C. Zhang, F. Wang, X. Yang, Y. Wang, Z. Cai,
L. Yang, H. Liu, and G. Lin, “Gaussianeditor: Swift and controllable
3d editing with gaussian splatting,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.14521,
2023.
[29] J. Fang, J. Wang, X. Zhang, L. Xie, and Q. Tian, “Gaussianeditor:
Editing 3d gaussians delicately with text instructions,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2311.16037, 2023.
[30] J. Ho, A. Jain, and P. Abbeel, “Denoising diffusion probabilistic
models,” in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems
33: Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems
2020, NeurIPS 2020, December 6-12, 2020, virtual, H. Larochelle,
M. Ranzato, R. Hadsell, M. Balcan, and H. Lin, Eds.,
2020. [Online]. Available: https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/2020/
hash/4c5bcfec8584af0d967f1ab10179ca4b-Abstract.html
[31] Y. Song and S. Ermon, “Generative modeling by estimating gradients
of the data distribution,” in Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems 32: Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing
Systems 2019, NeurIPS 2019, December 8-14, 2019, Vancouver,
BC, Canada, H. M. Wallach, H. Larochelle, A. Beygelzimer,
F. d’Alch´e-Buc, E. B. Fox, and R. Garnett, Eds., 2019, pp. 11 895–
11 907. [Online]. Available: https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/2019/
hash/3001ef257407d5a371a96dcd947c7d93-Abstract.html
[32] Y. Song, J. Sohl-Dickstein, D. P. Kingma, A. Kumar, S. Ermon,
and B. Poole, “Score-based generative modeling through stochastic
differential equations,” in 9th International Conference on Learning
Representations, ICLR 2021, Virtual Event, Austria, May 3-7, 2021.
OpenReview.net, 2021. [Online]. Available: https://openreview.net/
forum?id=PxTIG12RRHS
[33] A. Gu´edon and V. Lepetit, “Sugar: Surface-aligned gaussian splatting
for efficient 3d mesh reconstruction and high-quality mesh rendering,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.12775, 2023.
[34] B. Huang, Z. Yu, A. Chen, A. Geiger, and S. Gao, “2d gaussian
splatting for geometrically accurate radiance fields,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2403.17888, 2024.

-- 12 of 13 --

SUBMITTED TO IEEE TVCG 13
[35] Z. Yu, A. Chen, B. Huang, T. Sattler, and A. Geiger, “Mip-splatting:
Alias-free 3d gaussian splatting,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.16493,
2023.
[36] L. Huang, J. Bai, J. Guo, Y. Li, and Y. Guo, “On the error analysis of
3d gaussian splatting and an optimal projection strategy,” 2024.
[37] L. Radl, M. Steiner, M. Parger, A. Weinrauch, B. Kerbl, and M. Stein-
berger, “Stopthepop: Sorted gaussian splatting for view-consistent real-
time rendering,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.00525, 2024.
[38] S. R. Bul`o, L. Porzi, and P. Kontschieder, “Revising densification in
gaussian splatting,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.06109, 2024.
[39] T. Lu, M. Yu, L. Xu, Y. Xiangli, L. Wang, D. Lin, and B. Dai,
“Scaffold-gs: Structured 3d gaussians for view-adaptive rendering,” in
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition, 2024, pp. 20 654–20 664.
[40] S. Roth and M. J. Black, “Specular flow and the recovery of surface
structure,” in 2006 IEEE Computer Society Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR’06), vol. 2. IEEE, 2006, pp.
1869–1876.
[41] K. Han, K.-Y. K. Wong, D. Schnieders, and M. Liu, “Mirror surface
reconstruction under an uncalibrated camera,” in Proceedings of the
IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2016,
pp. 1772–1780.
[42] J. Zeng, C. Bao, R. Chen, Z. Dong, G. Zhang, H. Bao, and Z. Cui,
“Mirror-nerf: Learning neural radiance fields for mirrors with whitted-
style ray tracing,” in Proceedings of the 31st ACM International Con-
ference on Multimedia, 2023, pp. 4606–4615.
[43] A. Dave, Y. Zhao, and A. Veeraraghavan, “Pandora: Polarization-
aided neural decomposition of radiance,” in European Conference on
Computer Vision. Springer, 2022, pp. 538–556.
[44] A. Kadambi, V. Taamazyan, B. Shi, and R. Raskar, “Polarized 3d: High-
quality depth sensing with polarization cues,” in Proceedings of the IEEE
International Conference on Computer Vision, 2015, pp. 3370–3378.
[45] T. Whelan, M. Goesele, S. J. Lovegrove, J. Straub, S. Green, R. Szeliski,
S. Butterfield, S. Verma, R. A. Newcombe, M. Goesele et al., “Recon-
structing scenes with mirror and glass surfaces.” ACM Trans. Graph.,
vol. 37, no. 4, p. 102, 2018.
[46] M. Aittala, T. Aila, and J. Lehtinen, “Reflectance modeling by neural
texture synthesis,” ACM Transactions on Graphics (ToG), vol. 35, no. 4,
pp. 1–13, 2016.
[47] J. T. Barron and J. Malik, “Shape, illumination, and reflectance from
shading,” IEEE transactions on pattern analysis and machine intelli-
gence, vol. 37, no. 8, pp. 1670–1687, 2014.
[48] M. Nimier-David, D. Vicini, T. Zeltner, and W. Jakob, “Mitsuba 2:
A retargetable forward and inverse renderer,” ACM Transactions on
Graphics (TOG), vol. 38, no. 6, pp. 1–17, 2019.
[49] W. Chang, V. Sivaram, D. Nowrouzezahrai, T. Hachisuka, R. Ramamoor-
thi, and T.-M. Li, “Parameter-space restir for differentiable and inverse
rendering,” in ACM SIGGRAPH 2023 Conference Proceedings, 2023,
pp. 1–10.
[50] D. Verbin, P. Hedman, B. Mildenhall, T. Zickler, J. T. Barron, and P. P.
Srinivasan, “Ref-nerf: Structured view-dependent appearance for neural
radiance fields,” in 2022 IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition (CVPR). IEEE, 2022, pp. 5481–5490.
[51] A. Chen, Z. Xu, A. Geiger, J. Yu, and H. Su, “Tensorf: Tensorial radiance
fields,” in European Conference on Computer Vision. Springer, 2022,
pp. 333–350.
[52] T. Wu, J.-M. Sun, Y.-K. Lai, and L. Gao, “De-nerf: Decoupled neural ra-
diance fields for view-consistent appearance editing and high-frequency
environmental relighting,” in ACM SIGGRAPH 2023 conference pro-
ceedings, 2023, pp. 1–11.
[53] L. Ma, V. Agrawal, H. Turki, C. Kim, C. Gao, P. Sander, M. Zollh¨ofer,
and C. Richardt, “Specnerf: Gaussian directional encoding for specular
reflections,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), June 2024, pp. 21 188–21 198.
[54] P. Debevec, “A median cut algorithm for light probe sampling,” in ACM
SIGGRAPH 2008 classes, 2008, pp. 1–3.
[55] J. L. Schonberger and J.-M. Frahm, “Structure-from-motion revisited,”
in Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition, 2016, pp. 4104–4113.
[56] R. L. Cook and K. E. Torrance, “A reflectance model for computer
graphics,” ACM Transactions on Graphics (ToG), vol. 1, no. 1, pp. 7–
24, 1982.
[57] J. T. Kajiya, “The rendering equation,” in Proceedings of the 13th annual
conference on Computer graphics and interactive techniques, 1986, pp.
143–150.
[58] M. Oquab, T. Darcet, T. Moutakanni, H. V. Vo, M. Szafraniec, V. Khali-
dov, P. Fernandez, D. Haziza, F. Massa, A. El-Nouby, R. Howes, P.-Y.
Huang, H. Xu, V. Sharma, S.-W. Li, W. Galuba, M. Rabbat, M. Assran,
N. Ballas, G. Synnaeve, I. Misra, H. Jegou, J. Mairal, P. Labatut,
A. Joulin, and P. Bojanowski, “Dinov2: Learning robust visual features
without supervision,” 2023.
[59] R. Ranftl, A. Bochkovskiy, and V. Koltun, “Vision transformers for dense
prediction,” in 2021 IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer
Vision (ICCV), 2021, pp. 12 159–12 168.
[60] Z. Kuang, Y. Zhang, H.-X. Yu, S. Agarwala, E. Wu, J. Wu et al.,
“Stanford-orb: A real-world 3d object inverse rendering benchmark,”
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, vol. 36, 2024.
[61] J. Zhang, Y. Yao, S. Li, J. Liu, T. Fang, D. McKinnon, Y. Tsin,
and L. Quan, “Neilf++: Inter-reflectable light fields for geometry and
material estimation,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International
Conference on Computer Vision, 2023, pp. 3601–3610.
[62] R. Zhang, P. Isola, A. A. Efros, E. Shechtman, and O. Wang, “The
unreasonable effectiveness of deep features as a perceptual metric,” in
Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition, 2018, pp. 586–595.
[63] M. Deitke, D. Schwenk, J. Salvador, L. Weihs, O. Michel, E. VanderBilt,
L. Schmidt, K. Ehsani, A. Kembhavi, and A. Farhadi, “Objaverse: A
universe of annotated 3d objects,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2023, pp.
13 142–13 153.

-- 13 of 13 --

